# Career Counselor

The Command Career Counselor is here to help you progress not only in your Navy career, but also help you take advantage of benefits that will help your civilian career.  Contact the Command Career Counselor or your unit career counselor about any of the following:

## EXTENSIONS/REENLISTMENTS
All Reenlistments and Extensions must be requested prior to the expiration date of your enlistment.  Each unit’s Chain of Command should monitor their Muster Sheet for expiration of enlistment dates (located in the remarks column).   All requests must be initiated by the member via the unit or NOSC Career Counselor.  (Note: Per NAVADMIN 242/09, only conditional extensions are authorized.  All personnel wanting to continue their career must reenlist).  High-year tenure requirements also can restrict the options of your personnel.

## EDUCATION 
Your service may entitle to you to money for education or educational credit.
- Navy Benefits.  Some reservists may be eligible for money for college by using the Tuition Assistance Program. The Navy College Program provides opportunities for Sailors to earn college degrees by providing academic credit for Navy training, work experience, and off-duty education. For information visit: https://www.navycollege.navy.mil.
- Veterans Administration benefits.  Verify your educational benefits by contacting the VA at 1-800-827-1000 or 1-888-442-4551 or visit: http://www.gibill.va.gov/.  Your benefits might include:
  - Montgomery GI Bill (MGIB):  You might be eligible if you first entered active duty on or after July 1, 1985 and paid the $100.00/month reduction in pay for the first 12 months of enlistment.  The 36 month benefit must be used within 10 years of date of last discharge noted on the DD214.
  - Montgomery GI Bill –Selective Reserve (MGIB-SR): The Montgomery GI Bill - Selected Reserve is an education program that provides up to 36 months of education benefits to members of the Selected Reserve.  It is a program that doesn't require a person to serve on active duty in the regular Armed Forces to qualify.  The program requires a 6 year obligation and continued satisfactory participation.  This program is non-contributory.  Officers are required to sign a PG 13. Enlisted must reenlist for 6 years.  Total benefit amount can be found on the GI Bill website.  The 36 month benefit must be used while in a drilling status.
  - Post 9/11 GI Bill: Must have a minimum of 90 aggregate days of active duty (mobilization, ADSW, and ADT) after 9/11/2001 to become eligible.  AT and IDT time is not eligible for this program.  This program is non-contributory. For more information refer to NAVADMIN 187/09 Part 2.  To transfer up to 36 months of education benefits to dependents, the Sailor must incur a 4 year obligation.  Please refer to NAVADMIN 203/09 for additional information.

## RETIREMENT
Reservists are eligible to retire after a total of 20 qualifying years.  Reservists must accumulate 50 points in their anniversary year to earn a qualifying year of service.  By statute, only points earned during an anniversary year may be counted towards that year.  Once your anniversary date is over, you cannot go back and earn more points to make up for a nearly-qualifying year, so IT IS VITAL THAT YOU KNOW YOUR ANNIVERSARY DATE and TRACK YOUR POINTS during each year.  Visit BUPERS On-Line (www.bol.navy.mil) and click on the link for the ARPR/ASOSH web page.  This summary will show you your anniversary dates, and the number of points you earned each year.  Report any retirement point discrepancies to NOSC Command Services. 
For additional details visit http://www.public.navy.mil/BUPERS NPC/CAREER/RESERVEPERSONNELMGMT/RESERVERETIREMENTS/Pages/default.aspx.  

## RESERVE COMPONENT (RC) TO ACTIVE COMPONENT (AC)
As part of the Navy's Continuum of Service initiative, the RC to AC program is designed to streamline Sailors' transition between Reserve and active service.  Additionally, the RC to AC program complements the variety of initiatives the Navy uses to fill needed operational billets, enabling the Navy to manage its force so it is best prepared to meet current and future warfighting needs.  Application should coordinate with their Command Career Counselor to see if they are eligible and what requirements they must complete to submit for the program. 
